Lewiston-Clarkston's New Wine District

Michael and Eli...
October 22, 2019

In 1864, wine grape growing started in the Lewiston and Clarkston area, but it wasn't until 2016 that the Lewis-Clark AVA (American Viticultural Area) was established.

Officially named the Lewiston-Clarkston Idaho-Washington Metropolitan area, the city of Lewiston and its little brother Clarkston are separated by the Snake River, the state line between Washington state and Idaho, and a big blue bridge.
The area is also a rapidly growing wine region.

Lindsay Creek Vineyards

In 1872, the area wineries were winning gold awards in national wine competitions. 
Then came Prohibition, which crushed the wine industry across the country. 
Slowly beginning in the 1970’s it wasn’t until 15 years ago that the area saw a true revival for growing wine grapes. 
And the families of Art and Doug McIntosh were a big part of that.
The McIntosh brothers are 4th generation farmers, with their kids making the 5th. 
The McIntosh roots go back to 1900, growing mainly wheat and oats. 
In 2007, they added wine grapes, and soon after opened Lindsay Creek Vineyards. 
However, wheat is still an important crop for the, and their company Harvest Ridge Organics proves their expertise.

The farm is located in one of the few areas in the world that can grow hard red spring wheat. 
Their Harvest Ridge Organic, non-GMO, wheat flour is stone-ground, high in protein, and used locally in restaurants for bread, cookies, and pizza.
You can order their wheat and oats from their website or find it in local farmers' markets and co-ops.
Their website also features several recipes.
Check out the recipe for Chocolate Oatmeal Protein Cookies.

These cookies would pair well with the Lindsay Creek Cabernet Sauvignon, which has a nose of black cherry, and tastes of layered and well-balanced mocha, mineral, and blackberry.
We also tasted the award-winning 2014 Merlot, which was named the Best of Class in the Merlot category at the 2017 San Francisco Chronicle Wine Competition.
This Merlot has a lovely nose of cherry and vanilla, with just a hint of mocha.
The soft tannins and long finish would pair well with your favorite steak.

So how did wheat farmers become award-winning winemakers? What started as a hobby and love of wine, the brothers became so serious about winemaking that they both headed off to Washington State University for certificates in Enology (Art) and Viticulture (Doug).
Their effort certainly shows up in their wine! The tasting experience we enjoyed was greatly enhanced by the stunning views from their tasting room!

... document abbreviated.

Source: Foodista.com - The Cooking Encyclopedia Everyone Can Edit
License: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/
URL: https://www.foodista.com/blog/2019/10/22/lewiston-clarkstons-new-wine-district
